	What is troubleshooting? Troubleshooting is the process of identifying and fixing the source of problems. Computer Troubleshooting may involve hardware or software and can sometimes involve both at the same time. The basic process of troubleshooting is to check the most general possible problems first, and then gradually check for more specific problems. This provides a logical approach to problem solving and can apply to multiple types of products. 
From what I know, there are five steps in troubleshooting: verify that a problem actually exists, identify and locate the cause of the problem, correct the cause of the problem, verify that the problem has been corrected and lastly follow up to prevent future problems.
In the first step, verification of a problem will either provide you with indications of the cause if a problem actually exists or prevent the troubleshooter from wasting time and effort on “ghost” problems. Do not simply accept that something is wrong without personally verifying the failure. A few minutes invested up front can save a lot of time down the road.
In the second step, trouble is often caused by a change in the system. A thorough understanding of the system, its modes of operation, and how the modes of operation are supposed to work, the easier it will be to find the cause of the problem. This knowledge allows the troubleshooter to compare normal conditions to actual conditions.
In the third step, it is very important to correct the cause of the problem, not just the effect or the symptom. This often involves replacing or repairing a part or making adjustments. Never adjust a process or a piece of equipment to compensate for a problem and consider the job finished; correct the problem.
In the fourth step, repeating the same check that originally indicated the problem can often do this. If the fault has been corrected, the system should work properly.
In the last step, determine the underlying cause of the problem. Create a plan that will prevent a future recurrence of the problem.
	In the computer engineering course, students must have a knowledge on how to troubleshoot different parts of a computer because it is one of the jobs of a computer engineer aside from designing and creating software programs. 
	In our curriculum, we have a subject called Troubleshooting of Computer Systems. My first expectation on this subject was that we were going to troubleshoot a computer because I never tried and experienced to troubleshoot a computer. To be honest, I only knew a few problems of the computer that I can troubleshoot. This subject is an opportunity for me to learn how to troubleshoot a computer. I want to try to troubleshoot a computer because I only know how to write some codes and create software programs. We are supposed to know how to troubleshoot a computer, not just create software programs because we are computer engineering students.
In this subject, we were required to report any of the different parts of the computer. My partner and I were chosen by our instructor to report the computer mouse. Reporting is a nice idea because each group will have a chance to impart their knowledge about their assigned computer parts to their fellow computer engineering students.
	After reporting, the whole class was divided into two groups. The first group was assigned to troubleshoot the Raspberry Pi Model B+ microcomputer. The second group was assigned to troubleshoot the computer. I was assigned as the leader of the first group. The problem of the microcomputer is that it will not turn on and I was confident to troubleshoot the Raspberry Pi because I already encountered that problem when I first bought my own Raspberry Pi for my thesis. The problem was the active LED in the microcomputer was not blinking. When the active LED is blinking, it means that there is an operating system installed in the SD card. To solve the problem you have to install an operating system in the SD card of the microcomputer because the microcomputer will not turn on when there is no operating system. The installed operating system is called Raspbian, a Debian-based computer operating system for Raspberry Pi. After troubleshooting the Raspberry Pi, our group was assigned to troubleshoot the computer and second group was assigned to troubleshoot the Raspberry Pi. I was quite disappointed because we never had the chance to troubleshoot the computer because the power supply is broken. 
	For the subject, I have learned more from all the reports and the activity that we had. I am quite disappointed because I was expecting to learn how to troubleshoot a computer. This subject was an opportunity for me to learn troubleshooting but it did not happen. Reporting is nice but the hands-on troubleshooting is still better. Assigning half of the class to troubleshoot the devices was not effective because only two or three persons will be involved in troubleshooting. This subject should be more on hands-on than theories. 
	For our new instructor, I am glad that he continued what we have started in our class. I appreciate all his efforts that he invested to us and to our subject. I understand that he is still coping with his teaching job.
	
	
	
